Backend Developer Assignment
Objective
Design and build a RESTful APIfor a simple appointment booking system. The platform connects coaches with users who want to
book 30-minute appointmentslots. Thistask will assess your ability to design a system, model data, build APIs, and handle core
businesslogic.
CoreRequirements
You are to build the backend service that powersthis booking system. A coach should be able to settheir availability, and a user
should be able to book an available slot.
1. Functional Requirements
● Coach Availability: A coach must be able to define their available hoursfor any day of the week. For example, Coach Ais
available onMondaysfrom10:00 AM to 3:00 PMand
Wednesdays from 9:00 AM to 12:00 PM.
● View Available Slots: A usershould be able to query the system to see all available 30-minute booking slots for a
specific coach on a given day.
● Book an Appointment: A user must be able to book one of the available 30-minute slots with a coach.
● No Double Booking: Once a slot is booked, it must no longer appear as available. The system should prevent the same slot
from being booked by two different users.
● View Booked Appointments: A user should be able to see a list of all the appointments they have booked.
2. API Endpoints
You should design and implement a RESTful API to support the functional requirements. Here is a suggested list of endpoints. You
are free to modify themif you have a befler design in mind.
● POST /coaches/availability
○ Action: Allows a coach to set their weekly availability.
○ Request Body: Could include coach_id, day_of_week, start_time, end_time.
○ Example:{"coach_id": 1, "day": "Tuesday", "start_time": "09:00", "end_time":
"14:00"}
● GET /users/slots
○ Action: Fetches all available 30-minute slots for a given coach on a specific day.
○ Query Params: coach_id, date (e.g., 2025-10-28).
○ Success Response: An array of available time slots, e.g., ["2025-10-28T09:00:00Z",
"2025-10-28T09:30:00Z", ...]
● POST /users/bookings
○ Action: Allows a user to book an appointment.
○ Request Body: Should include user_id, coach_id, and the exact datetime of the slot
being booked.
○ Example: {"user_id": 101, "coach_id": 1, "datetime": "2025-10-28T09:30:00Z"}
● GET /users/bookings
○ Action: Fetches all upcoming appointments for a given user.
○ Query Params: user_id.
○ Success Response: An array of booking objects, including details about the coach
and the time.
Bonus Features
If you have extra time, consider implementing one or more of the following to showcase your skills further:
● Cancellation: Add an endpoint for a user to cancel a booking.
● Timezones: Handle timezones gracefully. Assume the coach and user might be in
different timezones.
● Concurrency:How would yoursystemhandle two userstrying to book the exactsame slot at the exact same time?
Implement a solution (e.g., using database transactions with
row-level locking) to prevent this race condition.
● Testing: Write unit or integration tests for your API endpoints and business logic.
Technical Specifications
● Language/Framework: Use any backend language and framework you are comfortable with.
● Database: Use any relational database you prefer.
● Code: Your code should be well-structured, clean, and maintainable.
Submission
Please provide the following:
1. A link to a Git repository (e.g., GitHub, GitLab) with your complete source code.
2. A README.md file that includes:
○ A brief explanation of your design choices and any assumptions you made.
○ Clear,step-by-step instructions on how to set up and run the projectlocally
(including installing dependencies, sefling up the database, and starting the server).
3. API documentation. This can be a Postman collection, a Swagger/OpenAPI file, or a simple markdown file describing
each endpoint, its expected request format, and
possible responses.
Evaluation Criteria
We will be evaluating your submission based on the following criteria:
● Correctness: Does the application meet all the core functional requirements?
● Problem Solving: How did you model the data? How did you generate the available slots
based on the coach'sschedule and existing bookings?
● Code Quality: Is the code clean, well-organized, and easy to understand?
● API Design: Are the APIs well-designed, RESTful, and consistent? Isinput validation and
error handling implemented correctly?
● Documentation: Isthe project easy to understand,set up, and use, thanks to your documentation?
AI Usage Disclosure
You are allowed to use AI tools (such as ChatGPT, Copilot, etc.) while working on this assignment.
However, if you use any AI assistance, please ensure the following:
● Share the complete conversation/log (prompt + responses) along with your submission.
● Clearly highlight which parts of the solution were AI-assisted.
● Ensure you fully understand the code and design, as you will be asked to explain your approach during follow-up discussions.